Now that we have a way of sharing our io connections across multiple files,
let's go ahead and in feed.js, in our controller on the backend, there I want to use that io or that
socket.js file.
So here maybe above my other imports, I'll add a new import and I'll name that io,
the name is up to you though and I will require dots going up one level and then /socket,
so this file we just created,
I will require that object therefore
and there I can now call get io to get my existing io object which I do initialize first
in app.js, right,
we initialize it here
so this will be initialized by the time we use it here.
So now this is how I import it here in feed.js.
Now inside of create post, I now want to use that
and of course in create posts I want to use it once I'm done creating the post essentially.
So right before I sent my response back and that response will go back to the user who created
the post, we'll not change this, we have to send back a response
but now I want to inform all other users and for that, I can use io and there I can call get io to
get my established io object or connection we set up in app.js
and now there are a couple of helpful methods
the io, the socket.io package gives you and one of them is emit.
There also would be broadcast, the difference is that emit will now send a message to all connected users,
broadcast sends it to all users except for the one from which this request was sent.
Now I'll actually go with all users with emit, then you define an event name and that name is totally up to you,
I'll name it posts
and I'll define the data I want to send. This is also up to you,
typically it's a javascript object and here I'll send an object with any data you want. I'll define an
action key to inform the clients
what happened, the channel you could say is posts but the action now is create and that is just one way
of implementing this of course
and then the post that was created will be stored in let's say a post key and that is the post which we
do save here.
So I'm sending this post object in this data package on this posts channel you could say. Now with that, we're
sending this to all connected clients. In the next step we'll have to adjust our client side code
to also react to such incoming events
and for that I'll go back to my client side code and here in componentDidMount in the feed.js
file, I want to set up the code to listen to incoming data from socket.io because in my app, the events
I broadcast or I emit on the server happened to be related to post which I manage in the feed.js
file in the end,
so here is where I'm interested in,
well changes to that.
So in componentDidMount ofter opening my socket, I will actually store something which is returned
by open socket and that is my socket,
so the socket, the connection which was opened,
I'll store that in a constant named socket,
the name is up to you
and now on that socket, we can use the on method to listen to certain events
and now here we want to use that same event name we used on the backend.
So there I used posts, if you use something different you now have to change that in your frontend too,
so I use posts and in the frontend I therefore listen to the posts event and there we will get some
data.
Now I know that due to the set up I chose here, my object which I send on the backend will have an action
key that defines what happened to posts but that's just the pattern I established here,
that is not enforced by socket.io.
You can send any data you want here,
you don't have to have an action key,
I want that though because I'll actually send different events or different kinds of operations on posts
through the same channel eventually.
So here I'll have my data object and I can check data action and see if that is equal to create which
in my case it will be for that event I'm emitting on the backend
and then I want to call this add post,
so this function we created before and I'll pass data post because again, I'm creating this whole set
up
and I know that on the backend, that data package I'm sending through socket.io will have a post key with
the post that was created.
So that is the post which I will send to add post which will be rendered by that code then.
And that is it for now, let's save that and also save all your backend code and go back to the
application
and now to see that in action, I'll actually fake to have a second client. So I will actually open a different
browser, Firefox and this is essentially the same as if it would run on a different PC now,
so these two browsers are now like two different machines and you can tell by the fact that I'm
not logged in here on Firefox, get a little display back here but we can ignore that for
now.
So let's use let's say the test2 user, create a different user if you don't have one
and now I'm logged in on Firefox on the left and on Chrome on the right. Now on Chrome, this is a test user
and on the left, it's a test2@test.com user named Max.
Now let me create a new post here, I'll name that a duck and choose that duck image here and click accept
and you see it'll show up on the left too, you'll also see it show up on the right
two times simply because there, I also get informed about this created post through my socket because I'm
not filtering to not send this to the client who sent the request and since I also have some code for
rendering the post in my finish edit handler in the feed.js file, if you scroll down a little bit, here
the post will show up there as well. To prevent this from happening,
I can remove this else/if case. If I now save this, all the pages will automatically reload
and now let's try this again, a cup,
let's choose that cup
image, accept and you see it show up on the left side
too and that is the interesting thing.
I never reloaded the page on left and still we see the new post show up there,
that is simply due to socket.io where we have an established connection on both clients now and therefore
it also updates on the left or add this item on the left due to the code we added on our frontend.